Android uses a file system that's similar to disk-based file systems on other platforms. The system provides several options for you to save your app data:

App-specific storage: Store files that are meant for your app's use only, either in dedicated directories within an internal storage volume or different dedicated directories within external storage. Use the directories within internal storage to save sensitive information that other apps shouldn't access.
Shared storage: Store files that your app intends to share with other apps, including media, documents, and other files.
Preferences: Store private, primitive data in key-value pairs.
Databases: Store structured data in a private database using the Room persistence library.
The solution you choose depends on your specific needs:
How much space does your data require?
Internal storage has limited space for app-specific data. Use other types of storage if you need to save a substantial amount of data.
How reliable does data access need to be?
If your app's basic functionality requires certain data, such as when your app is starting up, place the data within internal storage directory or a database. App-specific files that are stored in external storage aren't always accessible because some devices allow users to remove a physical device that corresponds to external storage.
What kind of data do you need to store?
If you have data that's only meaningful for your app, use app-specific storage. For shareable media content, use shared storage so that other apps can access the content. For structured data, use either preferences (for key-value data) or a database (for data that contains more than 2 columns).
Should the data be private to your app?
When storing sensitive data—data that shouldn't be accessible from any other app—use internal storage, preferences, or a database. Internal storage has the added benefit of the data being hidden from users.
Categories of storage locations
Android provides two types of physical storage locations: internal storage and external storage. On most devices, internal storage is smaller than external storage. However, internal storage is always available on all devices, making it a more reliable place to put data on which your app depends.